feat(rabbitmq-connector): add documentation for rabbitMq connector (#1449)
camunda/camunda-platform-docs: versioned_docs/version-8.0/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/rabbitmq.md

---
id: rabbitmq
title: RabbitMQ Service Connector
sidebar_label: RabbitMQ Connector
description: Send messages to RabbitMQ from your BPMN process using the RabbitMQ Connector.
---

The **RabbitMQ Connector** allows you to connect your BPMN service with [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/).

## Prerequisites

To use the **RabbitMQ Connector**, you need to have an installed RabbitMQ server and relevant credentials.
It is highly recommended not to expose your secret credentials as plain text, but rather use Camunda secrets. See [this appendix entry](#how-do-i-store-secrets-for-my-connector) to learn more.

:::note

> Ensure you write out the correct exchange name and routing key, as the **RabbitMQ Connector** can't throw an exception if they are incorrect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure the exchange name and routing key is correct, as the **RabbitMQ Connector** can't throw an exception if they are invalid.
```

:::

## Create a RabbitMQ Connector task

> To use the **RabbitMQ Connector** in your process, either change the type of existing task by clicking on it and using the wrench-shaped **Change type** context menu icon, or create a new Connector task by using the **Append Connector** context menu. Follow our [guide to using Connectors](../use-connectors.md) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the **RabbitMQ Connector** in your process, either change the type of the existing task by clicking on it and using the wrench-shaped **Change type** context menu icon, or create a new Connector task by using the **Append Connector** context menu. Follow our [guide to using Connectors](../use-connectors.md) to learn more.
```

## Connecting to RabbitMQ and sending messages

To connect to RabbitMQ, choose the required connection type in the **Authentication** section and complete the mandatory fields highlighted in red in the properties panel:

![connectors-rabbitmq-red-properties](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-red-properties.png)

:::note
All the mandatory and non-mandatory fields depending on the authentication selection you choose are covered in the upcoming sections.
:::

## Authentication

You can choose among the available RabbitMQ Connectors according to your authentication requirements.
First, you must have a user in your RabbitMQ instance with the necessary permissions. See more at the [RabbitMQ access control specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/access-control.html).

Next, we will choose a type of connection.

### URI type connection

For a URI connection, take the following steps:

1. Click the **URI** connection type in the **Authentication** section

> 2. Set **URI** to `URI`. It must contain RabbitMQ username, password, host name, port number, and virtual host. For example, `amqp://userName:password@serverHost:port/virtualHost`; follow the [RabbitMQ URI specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/uri-spec.html) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set **URI** to `URI`. It must contain the RabbitMQ username, password, host name, port number, and virtual host. For example, `amqp://userName:password@serverHost:port/virtualHost`; follow the [RabbitMQ URI specification](https://www.rabbitmq.com/uri-spec.html) to learn more.
```

:::note
Ensure you enter the correct exchange name and routing key, as the **RabbitMQ Connector** can't throw an exception if they are incorrect.
:::

## Create a RabbitMQ Connector task

To use the **RabbitMQ Connector** in your process, either change the type of existing task by clicking on it and using the wrench-shaped **Change type** context menu icon,

![wrench-shape](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-wrench-shaped.png)

or create a new Connector task by using the **Append Connector** context menu.

![wrench-shape](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-append-connector.png)

Follow our [guide to using Connectors](../use-connectors.md) to learn more.

## Connecting to RabbitMQ and sending messages

To connect to RabbitMQ, choose the required connection type in the **Authentication** section and complete the mandatory fields highlighted in red in the connector properties panel:

![connectors-rabbitmq-red-properties](../img/connectors-rabbitmq-red-properties.png)

:::note
All the mandatory and non-mandatory fields depending on the authentication selection you choose are covered in the upcoming sections.
:::

## Authentication

> You can choose among the available RabbitMQ Connectors according to your authentication requirements.

Reviewer 2: Are you referring here to the different authentication types? If that's the case, I would suggest something like:
"You can choose from the available authentication types of the RabbitMQ Connector depending on your authentication requirements."
